DOCUMENT_TITLE: Coal Mines Regulations (CMR) 2017
CATEGORY: Indian Mining Legislation & Safety Standards
PUBLISHER: Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS), Ministry of Labour and Employment, Govt. of India

--- REGULATION 104: Precautions against Inflammable and Noxious Gases ---
(1) In every gassy seam of the second or third degree, ventilation shall be so maintained that the proportion of inflammable gas in the general body of air shall not exceed 0.75 percent in any place in the mine where work is being carried on or where men pass, and shall not exceed 1.25 percent in any return airway.
(2) If at any time in any place in a mine, the proportion of inflammable gas exceeds 1.25 percent, the person in charge of that place shall immediately withdraw all persons from that place and inform the mine manager.
(3) Automatic gas detectors of approved type shall be provided for continuous monitoring of methane (CH4) gas in all degree III gassy coal seams.

--- REGULATION 111: Mine Ventilation and Air Quantity ---
(1) The quantity of air provided in every underground mine shall not be less than 6 cubic metres per minute per person employed underground on the largest shift, or 2.5 cubic metres per minute per tonne of daily coal production, whichever is greater.
(2) The velocity of air current in any main haulage road or traveling roadway shall not exceed 450 metres per minute to prevent dust dispersion and worker discomfort.

--- REGULATION 123: Support Standards and Roof Mechanical Stability ---
(1) In bord and pillar workings, every gallery and intersection shall be supported in accordance with the System of Support Rules (SSR) approved by the Regional Inspector of Mines.
(2) Rock Mass Rating (RMR) calculated according to Bieniawski's or CMRI classification system shall dictate the support density. For RMR < 40 (Poor Roof), roof bolting with full column resin capsules at maximum 1.0m grid spacing is mandatory.
(3) Mechanical or hydraulic props used at coal extraction faces shall have a minimum load-bearing capacity of 20 tonnes.
